# oblt-playwright

A test framework for assessing the search performance of Elastic Observability solution across various deployment types from the end-user perspective, supporting the last released version.

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

#### Datasets

Test scenarios require a deployment/project to ingest scenario-specific data, examine [required datasets](https://github.com/elastic/oblt-playwright/blob/main/docs/data_mapping.md) accordingly.

Note: APM scenarios are strictly bound to data generated by [apmsoak](https://github.com/elastic/apm-perf/tree/main/cmd/apmsoak).

#### Background tasks

In case there is a need to assess the impact of alerting rules execution on the performance, it is recommended to create alerting rules before running tests using the following command: 

```bash
npx playwright test alerting_rules.api.spec.ts --project api
```

The following alerting rules will be established to monitor alert conditions with a one-minute check frequency:

- `apm.error_rate`
- `apm.transaction_error_rate`
- `apm.transaction_duration`
- `host.memory.threshold`
- `host.cpu.threshold`
- `pod.memory.threshold`
- `pod.outbound_traffic.threshold`

Note: To authorize access to Elasticsearch resources, pass your API key into `API_KEY` environmental variable.

## 🤖 CI

### Setup 

#### GitHub Actions Secrets:

```typescript
API_KEY_SERVERLESS = 'ApiKey ...'
API_KEY_STATEFUL = 'ApiKey ...'
ELASTICSEARCH_HOST_SERVERLESS = // No trailing slash
ELASTICSEARCH_HOST_STATEFUL = // No trailing slash
KIBANA_HOST_SERVERLESS = 
KIBANA_HOST_STATEFUL = 
KIBANA_PASSWORD_SERVERLESS = 
KIBANA_PASSWORD_STATEFUL = 
KIBANA_USERNAME_SERVERLESS = 
KIBANA_USERNAME_STATEFUL = 
REPORTING_CLUSTER_ES = // No trailing slash
REPORTING_CLUSTER_API_KEY = 'ApiKey ...'
```

#### GitHub Actions Variables:

```typescript
REPORTING_CLUSTER_INDEX = 
TIME_UNIT = 'Minutes'
TIME_VALUE = 15
```

### Workflows

Currently configured workflows (see [ECH](https://github.com/elastic/oblt-playwright/blob/main/.github/workflows/ech.yml) | [Serverless ](https://github.com/elastic/oblt-playwright/blob/main/.github/workflows/serverless.yml)) execute each of the test suites (APM, Infrastructure, Logs) on an hourly basis with 20-minute intervals between them.
- APM test suite executes at the top of each hour.
- Infrastructure test suite executes 20 minutes past the hour.
- Logs test suite executes 40 minutes past the hour.

Tests are executed sequentially, with only one Kibana user at a given time.

### Test reports

A custom reporter generates JSON files and transmits them to a remote Elasticsearch reporting cluster (specify Elasticsearch endpoint as `REPORTING_CLUSTER_ES` and set `REPORTING_CLUSTER_API_KEY`). Make sure to create an index first and pass its name into `REPORTING_CLUSTER_INDEX` variable. In a newly created index, match `startTime` field to `Date` type.

## 💻 Local usage

### Installation

Make sure you have [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download) installed.

1. Clone the repository.
```bash
git clone https://github.com/elastic/oblt-playwright.git
```
2. Install dependencies:
```bash
npm install
```
3. Install Chromium:
```bash
npx playwright install chromium
```

### Setup 

#### Environmental variables

Create .env file in the root directory with the following environmental variables:

```typescript
KIBANA_HOST = 
ELASTICSEARCH_HOST = // No trailing slash
KIBANA_USERNAME = 
KIBANA_PASSWORD = 
TIME_UNIT = 'Minutes'
TIME_VALUE = 15
API_KEY = 'ApiKey ...'
```

#### Test report location

Create `playwright-report` directory in the root.

### Running tests

Examine available [test scenarios and required datasets](https://github.com/elastic/oblt-playwright/blob/main/docs/data_mapping.md).
Have ideas for new user journeys? Check [the guide for creating a new test](https://github.com/elastic/oblt-playwright/blob/main/docs/guidelines.md).

By default, tests run in headless mode. To launch browsers in headed mode, use the `--headed` flag.
It is recommended to run tests during ongoing data collection.


#### Run a specific script

Specify script name and project name (`stateful` or `serverless`) in the test command. Example:

```bash
npx playwright test apm.serverless.spec.ts --project serverless --headed
```

#### Run a specific test

Specify test name and project name (`stateful` or `serverless`) in the test command. Example:

```bash
npx playwright test -g "APM - Services" --project serverless --headed
```